I'm Carolyn Stubley and I'm the nurse manager for
the We Help Ourselves organisation.
So WHOS is an organisation of
residential alcohol and drug residential
treatment.
A lot of our clients who are either homeless
or come from a very chaotic lifestyle and
the last thing they probably do address is their
eye sight.
They probably haven't had an eye test some for
years.
Some of them will never have had glasses.
The optometrists and volunteers all
come here and we set up the clinic.
It's really important that they get the
opportunity to get their eyes tested and
certainly to get free glasses.
It's pretty amazing for them.
Some clients probably haven't even realised
the impact of not having great vision
has had on them.
So when they get their glasses, all of a sudden
it does open up the opportunity for different
types of employment and study.
I think people who come to residential treatment
and all of a sudden are getting their physical
needs looked at are very grateful
because it's something they've neglected for a
long time because of the pure alcohol and drug
use.
The day we give out the glasses,
all of a sudden everyone's wearing glasses, which
is fantastic.
And everyone is saying, I didn't realise how bad
my eyesight was.
Now all of a sudden, they've got more confidence.
So just to see the difference that it makes
for someone to have glasses is enough reward
for me. And just to see them, just
gain that extra confidence.
I work for OPSM as a managing
optometrist in a Sydney store.
So one of the highlights of my year is
being involved in the WHOS clinic in Lilyfield
doing vision testing for those residents
there.
As optometrist every day I see people
who can easily access eye care.
They come to us, they come to the shop.
They can afford it.
One thing I love about working with WHOS
is that we are bringing the eye care
to them. To ensure that no one is left
without adequate good quality
eye care.
For the most common things we find at the WHO'S
clinic is that the men and women often just
haven't had an eye test for years.
If they have, they're walking around in oh,
glasses, crack glasses, scratch lenses
and the wrong prescription.
Something that I find amazing is the fact that
for many of these clients, they haven't even
realised that they couldn't see.
I've seen people who put glasses
on them for the first time and they're amazed
about what they can see.
So to see their lives turn around
in this way is amazing.
The power of a pair of glasses really can
transform lives.
It makes it worthwhile.